---
# Documentation: https://wowchemy.com/docs/managing-content/

title: "10,000 steps"
subtitle: ""
summary: ""
authors: ["Eashan Kotha"]
tags: ["update your priors"]
categories: []
date: 2024-01-18T19:45:26-08:00
lastmod: 2024-01-18T19:45:26-08:00
featured: false
draft: false

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder.
# Focal points: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight.
image:
  caption: ""
  focal_point: ""
  preview_only: false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this post with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["internal-project"]` references `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects: []
weight: 5
---
## Myth of a Milestone
If you grew up hearing 10,000 steps a day is good for you, I'm here to burst that bubble. 

When you first learned of that number, you might have thought to yourself, "10k is such a memorable, round figure. I could totally strive for that!" Or you might've thought: "Gee, that's actually quite a lot of steps." In either case, I have great news. 

Even though many people say 10,000 steps a day is good for you, you can actually get the benefits associated with way less. The number 10,000 is arbitrary! 

In fact it was all borne from a marketing scheme by a Japanese company, Yamasa. In the wake of the 1964 Olympics, Yamasa released the Manpo-kei which literally translates to “10,000 steps.” Dr. I-Min Lee, epidemiologist and Harvard Medical School professor states it was essentially a marketing tool. 


## The Science of How Many Steps 
4,500 to 7,000 steps is a good range to target. Anything above that isn't necessarily going to be *that* much more beneficial to you. 

## Customizing Walking for Your Lifestyle
There are many tiny ways to build up your step count. 
- Get up and move around every hour. My Apple Watch automatically prompts me if I've been sitting for an hour and not stretched my legs. It helps sometimes. 
- Take the scenic route. If you're getting somewhere, plan to be a little early, so you have the time to take a more scenic walking route. I think it's good to nourish our inner adventurer spirit!
- Pick stairs over elevators and escalators. A good incline can make for a great workout and not to mention, saves energy. 

## Citations
[Daily steps and all-cause mortality: a meta-analysis of 15 international cohorts](https://doi.org/10.1016/S2468-2667(21)00302-9)

[Harvard Health](https://www.health.harvard.edu/blog/10000-steps-a-day-or-fewer-2019071117305)

## Status
If you have any suggestions, please @ me on Twitter/X (@eashankotha).
